README.md, before:

# Noah Clouser's othello_player implementation
Technical coding challenge given by Atomic Object

Below is Atomic Object's introduction to the challenge and description of key aspects:

# AOthello

Welcome to this year's Atomic Accelerator challenge. You'll be creating a bot to play the game of Othello!

To begin, clone this repository.

## Usage

To run the game, you'll need a recent Java VM (we recommend Java 17). Use a terminal/command line tool to invoke the game:

    $ java -jar othello.jar [options]

## Options

You can specify that the server should invoke your player, use a "robot" player with a predetermined set of moves, or use a random player for one or both players.

The player can be one of three types:
 * remote - the game will listen for a player to connect to the server
 * random - the game will make a random valid move for the player
 * robot - the game use moves specified in the `--p1-moves` or `--p2-moves` argument

You'll most likely want to run with your client as a remote player, and a random player for the opponent.

The game will log moves to the console and run a webserver at localhost on port 8080 for a UI (http://localhost:8080).

Use the `--ui-port` to specify a different UI port.
Pass the `--wait-for-ui` option in order to have the server wait for a UI connection before starting the game.

By default the game will time out if a player has not responeded within 15 seconds.
You can change this with the `--max-turn-time arg` (`--max-turn-time 20000` for 20 seconds).

Usage:
```
java -jar othello.jar
java -jar othello.jar --p1-type remote --p2-type random --wait-for-ui
```

Options:
```
      --p1-type TYPE          remote     Player one's type - remote, random, or robot
      --p2-type TYPE          remote     Player two's type - remote, random, or robot
      --p1-name NAME          Player One  Player one's team name
      --p2-name NAME          Player Two  Player two's team name
      --p1-moves MOVES        []          Moves for a P1 robot player
      --p2-moves MOVES        []          Moves for a P2 robot player
      --p1-port PORT          1337        Port number for the P1 client
      --p2-port PORT          1338        Port number for the P2 client
      --ui-port PORT          8080        Port number for UI clients
  -w, --wait-for-ui                       Wait for a UI client to connect before starting game
  -m, --min-turn-time MILLIS  1000        Minimum amount of time to wait between turns
  -x, --max-turn-time MILLIS  15000       Maximum amount of time to allow an AI for a turn
  -h, --help
```

## Starter Kits

Look under the `/sdks` directory to find starter kits for C#, Java, Javascript, and Python. If you'd rather use a different language - feel free to do so and you can use the starter kits as a reference.

The starter kit implementations will connect to the game server, read a board state, and then send a response. You'll need to modify them to analyze the game state and return an optimal move.

## Moves

When the game server starts, it will wait for players to connect, then begin executing moves until it determines a winner.

When the game server needs a move from your client it will send the game state as JSON, followed by a newline. For example:

`{"board":[[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0],[0,0,0,0,2,0,0,0],[0,0,0,0,2,0,0,0],[0,0,0,1,2,0,0,0],[0,0,0,1,2,2,0,0],[0,0,0,1,0,0,0,0],[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0],[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0]],"maxTurnTime":15000,"player":1}\n`

The "board" data structure is a list of game board rows, from the top to the bottom of the game board. A "0" indicates an empty square, a "1" indicates a player one piece, and a "2" indicates a player two piece.

Note the "player" field - read this field to determine if you are player one or player two. Your client should not assume that it always plays as player 1 or 2, however when you test it you as shown above you will explicitly choose which player it is assigned.

When you've computed a move, return it as a JSON array, followed by a newline, for example:

`"[1,2]\n"`

The coordinate system begins at the top left of the board. The coordinates are in [row, column] format. So [7,0] would indicate the lower left corner of the board. [0,0] indicates the top left corner and [7,7] indicates the bottom right corner.

Be sure to terminate your response with the newline, otherwise your move will timeout.

Returning an invalid move will forfeit the game. Timing out (the default timeout is 15 seconds) will also forfeit the game.

## License

Copyright © 2018

Distributed under the Eclipse Public License either version 1.0 or (at
your option) any later version.

Commit message:

Completed Mini-Max Alpha-Beta pruning

README.md, after:

# Noah Clouser's othello_player implementation
Technical coding challenge given by Atomic Object

I implemented the Mini-Max Alpha-Beta pruning algorithm to determine the next best move the AI agent should take given the GameState. I used a simple static heuristic to evalulate 
the score of the game board at either a terminal node or limit. This performs amazing against the random othello player, but could be improved with a dynamic heuristic.

Below is Atomic Object's introduction to the challenge and description of key aspects:

# AOthello

Welcome to this year's Atomic Accelerator challenge. You'll be creating a bot to play the game of Othello!

To begin, clone this repository.

## Usage

To run the game, you'll need a recent Java VM (we recommend Java 17). Use a terminal/command line tool to invoke the game:

    $ java -jar othello.jar [options]

## Options

You can specify that the server should invoke your player, use a "robot" player with a predetermined set of moves, or use a random player for one or both players.

The player can be one of three types:
 * remote - the game will listen for a player to connect to the server
 * random - the game will make a random valid move for the player
 * robot - the game use moves specified in the `--p1-moves` or `--p2-moves` argument

You'll most likely want to run with your client as a remote player, and a random player for the opponent.

The game will log moves to the console and run a webserver at localhost on port 8080 for a UI (http://localhost:8080).

Use the `--ui-port` to specify a different UI port.
Pass the `--wait-for-ui` option in order to have the server wait for a UI connection before starting the game.

By default the game will time out if a player has not responeded within 15 seconds.
You can change this with the `--max-turn-time arg` (`--max-turn-time 20000` for 20 seconds).

Usage:
```
java -jar othello.jar
java -jar othello.jar --p1-type remote --p2-type random --wait-for-ui
```

Options:
```
      --p1-type TYPE          remote     Player one's type - remote, random, or robot
      --p2-type TYPE          remote     Player two's type - remote, random, or robot
      --p1-name NAME          Player One  Player one's team name
      --p2-name NAME          Player Two  Player two's team name
      --p1-moves MOVES        []          Moves for a P1 robot player
      --p2-moves MOVES        []          Moves for a P2 robot player
      --p1-port PORT          1337        Port number for the P1 client
      --p2-port PORT          1338        Port number for the P2 client
      --ui-port PORT          8080        Port number for UI clients
  -w, --wait-for-ui                       Wait for a UI client to connect before starting game
  -m, --min-turn-time MILLIS  1000        Minimum amount of time to wait between turns
  -x, --max-turn-time MILLIS  15000       Maximum amount of time to allow an AI for a turn
  -h, --help
```

## Starter Kits

Look under the `/sdks` directory to find starter kits for C#, Java, Javascript, and Python. If you'd rather use a different language - feel free to do so and you can use the starter kits as a reference.

The starter kit implementations will connect to the game server, read a board state, and then send a response. You'll need to modify them to analyze the game state and return an optimal move.

## Moves

When the game server starts, it will wait for players to connect, then begin executing moves until it determines a winner.

When the game server needs a move from your client it will send the game state as JSON, followed by a newline. For example:

`{"board":[[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0],[0,0,0,0,2,0,0,0],[0,0,0,0,2,0,0,0],[0,0,0,1,2,0,0,0],[0,0,0,1,2,2,0,0],[0,0,0,1,0,0,0,0],[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0],[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0]],"maxTurnTime":15000,"player":1}\n`

The "board" data structure is a list of game board rows, from the top to the bottom of the game board. A "0" indicates an empty square, a "1" indicates a player one piece, and a "2" indicates a player two piece.

Note the "player" field - read this field to determine if you are player one or player two. Your client should not assume that it always plays as player 1 or 2, however when you test it you as shown above you will explicitly choose which player it is assigned.

When you've computed a move, return it as a JSON array, followed by a newline, for example:

`"[1,2]\n"`

The coordinate system begins at the top left of the board. The coordinates are in [row, column] format. So [7,0] would indicate the lower left corner of the board. [0,0] indicates the top left corner and [7,7] indicates the bottom right corner.

Be sure to terminate your response with the newline, otherwise your move will timeout.

Returning an invalid move will forfeit the game. Timing out (the default timeout is 15 seconds) will also forfeit the game.

## License

Copyright © 2018

Distributed under the Eclipse Public License either version 1.0 or (at
your option) any later version.
